---
layout: default
slim-header: true
title:  "Brewday!"
date:   2017-08-21
category: blog
comments: true
thumbnail: brewday.jpg
permalink: /blog/:year/:month/:day/:title.html
---

Many people wonder how the magic of Skorubrew comes to be, so here's a pictorial rundown of what a normal brewday looks like.

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/1.jpg" desc="Fill a pot with 6.5 L of tap water" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/2.jpg" desc="Add half a crushed campden tablet to get rid of any chlorine in the water" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/3.jpg" desc="Heat the water to 69C which is my preferred mashing temperature" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/4.jpg" desc="Split some of the water into another pot to be used later for sparging" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/5.jpg" desc="Put the grain bag in and slowly pour in the grain while stirring. If you don't pour slowly clumps will form that you have to break up." %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/6.jpg" desc="Cover up the pot. I've found that leaving it on the warm stove keeps the temperature constant" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/7.jpg" desc="Wait for 1 hour for the malt enzymes to convert the carbohydrates in the grain into sugars" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/8.jpg" desc="Take off the stovetop and take the bag out to squeeze" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/9.jpg" desc="Use the water that was separated previously to pour over the bag while squeezing to get all the sugars out. This takes about 15 minutes to get a good squeeze" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/10.jpg" desc="Put the pot back on the stovetop and wait for it to get to a rolling boil. My stove is pretty weak so this requires the pot to be partially covered" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/11.jpg" desc="Measure out the hop pellets" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/12.jpg" desc="Add the hop pellets at the desired times. In this instance I added a portion of the hops every 10 minutes" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/13.jpg" desc="Turn off the heat and let the pot sit for a little bit" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/14.jpg" desc="Put the pot in the sink to cool off. This can often take a few hours unless a lot of ice is added" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/15.jpg" desc="Transfer the wort into the carboy. I try to get less of the gunk in the pot but usually a bit comes through" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/16.jpg" desc="Cool the carboy down to the required yeast pitching temperature." %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/17.jpg" desc="Add in the yeast. Give it a good shake to help the yeast disperse and get some oxygen into the wort" %}
<br/>

{% include blogImage.html url="/img/blog/brewday/18.jpg" desc="Celebrate a successful brew day with a cold tasty beer" %}
<br/>


